applying for jobs online is one of the
worst digital experiences of our time
and applying for jobs in person really
isn't much better hiring as we know it
is broken on many friends it's a
terrible experience for people about 75%
of people who apply to jobs using
various methods in the past years that
they never heard anything back from the
employer and at the company level it's
not much better 46 percent of people get
fired or quit within the first year of
starting their jobs pretty mind-blowing
it's also bad for the economy for the
first time in history we have more open
jobs than we have unemployed people and
to me that screams that we have a
problem
I believe that at the crux of all of
this is a single piece of paper the
resume a resume definitely has some
useful pieces in it what roles people
have had computer skills what languages
they speak but what it misses is what
they have the potential to do that they
might not have had the opportunity to do
in the past and with such a quickly
changing economy where jobs are coming
online that might require skills that
nobody has if we only look at what
someone has done in the past we're not
gonna be able to match people to the
jobs of the future so this is where I
think technology can be really helpful
you've probably seen that algorithms
have gotten pretty good at matching
people to things but what if we could
use that same technology to actually
help us find jobs that we're really well
suited for but I know what you're
thinking algorithms picking your next
job sounds a little bit scary but there
is one thing that has been shown to be
really predictive of someone's future
success in a job and that's what's
called a multi measure test multi
measure tests really aren't anything new
but they used to be really expensive and
require a PhD sitting across from you
and answering lots of questions and
writing reports multi measure tests are
a way to understand someone's inherent
traits your memory your attentiveness
what if we could take multi measure
tests and make them scalable and
accessible and provide data to employers
about really what the traits are of
someone who can make them a good fit for
a job this all sounds abstract let's try
one of the games together you're about
to see a flashing circle and your job is
going to be to cop when the circle is
red and do nothing when it's green
maybe you're the type of person who
claps the millisecond after a red circle
appears or maybe you're the type of
person who takes just a little bit
longer to be a hundred percent sure or
maybe you clap on green even though
you're not supposed to the cool thing
here is that this isn't like a
standardized tests where some people are
employable and some people aren't
instead it's about understanding the fit
between your characteristics and what
would make you good at a certain job we
found that if Utah played on red and you
never clap on the green you might be
high in attentiveness and high in
restraint people in that quadrant tend
to be great students great test takers
great at project management or
accounting but if you clap immediately
on bread and sometimes cop on green that
might mean that you're more impulsive
and creative and we found that top
performing sales people often embody
these traits the way we actually use
this in hiring is we have top performers
in a role go through neuroscience
exercises like this one then we develop
an algorithm that understands what makes
those top performers unique and then
when people apply to the job we're able
to surface the candidates who might be
best suited for that job so you might be
thinking there's a danger in this the
work world today is not the most diverse
and if we're building algorithms based
on current top performers how do we make
sure that we're not just perpetuating
the biases that already exist for
example if we were building an algorithm
based on top performing CEOs and use the
sp500 as a training set you would
actually find that you're more likely to
hire an white man named John than any
woman and that's the reality of who's in
those roles right now but technology
actually poses a really interesting
opportunity we can create algorithms
that are more equitable and more fair
than human beings have ever been every
algorithm that we put into production
has been pre-tested to ensure that it
doesn't favor any gender orthis and if
there's any population that's being over
favored we can actually alter the
algorithm until that's no longer true
when we focus on the inherent
characteristics that can make somebody a
good fit for a job we can transcend
racism classism sexism ageism even good
school ism our best technology and
algorithms shouldn't just be used for
helping us find our next movie binge or
a new favorite Justin Bieber song and
that
if we could harness the power of
technology to get real guidance on what
we should be doing based on who we are
at a deeper level
[Music]